srcs/phpmyadmin/README.md, before:

# PHMYQADMIN CONTAINER

This readme is dedicated to the PhpMyAdmin container, subpart of the
ft_services project(school project, at 42).

## OVERVIEW

This container will host a phpmyadmin application, and its personal ngnix
server, passing php requestst to php-fmp (FastCGI).
This container will interact with the container containing the Mysql server.

PhpMyAdmin is providing a nice UI to viewing/managing our mysql database.
It is an application written in php, just like wordpress, that will be accessed
in our case through the Nginx server.

## IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS & SECURITY GOOD PRACTICE

Nginx redirects to the root directory
where phpmyadmin has been installed. The redirection is done by first
recognising the fact that we have a .php on port 5000, then forwarding the work
to php-fpm (FastCGI style, so all the requests are process on an external
process: php-fpm).

The Nginx proxies this request to php-fpm, i chose to update a bit the set ups
i found on the internet and make it happen through a unix domain socket instead
of a TCP/IP socket. Possible because we run both processes on the same machine,
its quicker and this reduces security attack surface by itself. That was just a
good exercice.

## RUNNING PROCESSES IN THE SAME CONTAINER

- Nginx
- php-fpm7

## PORTS:

- 5000

## ENV VARIABLES (and their default values):

- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_NAME\_\_ wordpress
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_USERNAME\_\_ user
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD\_\_ password
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_HOST\_\_ 127.0.0.1

## LOGS

nginx logs are made available to docker.

same goes for php-fpm

## TIPS and REASONS IT DID NOT WORK

First make sure you can access the phpMyAdmin initial page asking for usename
and   password through [http://localhost:5000], this requires installing phpmyamdin application, setting up the nginx server to redirect to its root folder throug php-fmp. (start nginx and php-fpm).

Once you have correctly access that, try to access:
[http://localhost:5000/setup/index.php]
This will show you if there is some missing packets. (i missed php7-bz2 for
example).

Once everything worked perfectly, i tried to edit my admin user or add new
one through phpmyadmin. It worked but i could not connect:
_Error: The password you entered for the username admin is incorrect._

when updating the user_pass value in wp_users table, make sure you use MD5,
using no encryption method was the problem. Also make sure in the wp_usermeta
table to have the correct prefix: "wp\_" or your curstom on.

Commit message:

removed the unused wp-config.php file since we directly update the original. in the phpmyadmin and the wordpress containers, restructured the bootstrap.sh main script, making it call subscript, Now all those container are perfectly managing double service

srcs/phpmyadmin/README.md, after:

# PHMYQADMIN CONTAINER

This readme is dedicated to the PhpMyAdmin container, subpart of the
ft\_services project(school project, at 42).

## OVERVIEW

This container will host a phpmyadmin application, and its personal ngnix
server, passing php requestst to php-fmp (FastCGI).
This container will interact with the container containing the Mysql server.

PhpMyAdmin is providing a nice UI to viewing/managing our mysql database.
It is an application written in php, just like wordpress, that will be accessed
in our case through the Nginx server.

## IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS & SECURITY GOOD PRACTICE

Nginx redirects to the root directory
where phpmyadmin has been installed. The redirection is done by first
recognising the fact that we have a .php on port 5000, then forwarding the work
to php-fpm (FastCGI style, so all the requests are process on an external
process: php-fpm).

The Nginx proxies this request to php-fpm, i chose to update a bit the set ups
i found on the internet and make it happen through a unix domain socket instead
of a TCP/IP socket. Possible because we run both processes on the same machine,
its quicker and this reduces security attack surface by itself. That was just a
good exercice.

Two services in the same container but yet we mannaged to avoid using a full
fledged init process.

## RUNNING SERVICES IN THE SAME CONTAINER:

- Nginx
- php-fpm7

## PORTS:

- 5000

## ENV VARIABLES (and their default values):

- \_\_WORDPRESS\_DB\_NAME\_\_=wordpress
- \_\_WORDPRESS\_DB\_USERNAME\_\_=user
- \_\_WORDPRESS\_DB\_PASSWORD\_\_=password
- \_\_WORDPRESS\_DB\_HOST\_\_=127.0.0.1

## LOGS

nginx logs are made available to docker.

same goes for php-fpm

## TIPS and REASONS IT DID NOT WORK

First make sure you can access the phpMyAdmin initial page asking for usename
and password through [http://localhost:5000], this requires installing
phpmyamdin application, setting up the nginx server to redirect to its root
folder throug php-fmp. (start nginx and php-fpm).

Once you have correctly access that, try to access:
[http://localhost:5000/setup/index.php]
This will show you if there is some missing packets. (i missed php7-bz2 for
example).

Once everything worked perfectly, i tried to edit my admin user or add new
one through phpmyadmin. It worked but i could not connect:
_Error: The password you entered for the username admin is incorrect._

when updating the user\_pass value in wp\_users table, make sure you use MD5,
using no encryption method was the problem. Also make sure in the wp\_usermeta
table to have the correct prefix: "wp\_" or your curstom on.
