srcs/Wordpress/README.md, before:

# WORDPRESS CONTAINER

This readme is dedicated to the Wordpress container, subpart of the ft_services
project(school project, at 42).

## OVERVIEW

The container will host a wordpress site. it will also run its own nginx
server.
The container will have a database running in a separate container.
The server is placed inside /var/www/aha_archi (it is actually a symlink to
/usr/share/webapps/wordpress)

## IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS

The user and password should be te same when running the mysql container.

## PORTS:
Nginx is listening on the port 5050.

## ENV variables (and their default values).

- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_NAME\_\_ wordpress
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_USERNAME\_\_ user
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD\_\_ password
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_HOST\_\_ 127.0.0.1
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_TABLE_PREFIX\_\_ aha_archi_wp_

_Mainly used for dynamically updating the **wp-config.php** file when building image
and starting the container._

## SECURITY:

the table_prefix is not left to wp_ in order to avoid common sql injections.
the salt keys are set and can be changed though the use of the script:
`wp_salt_keys_reset.sh`

Commit message:

in the wordpress container, added the php related dependencies, and started in the wordpress/srcs/bootstrap.sh script the php-fmp7 process along with the nginx daemon. Now the container runs and wordpress is accessible on localhost:5050 on the host machine

srcs/Wordpress/README.md, after:

# WORDPRESS CONTAINER

This readme is dedicated to the Wordpress container, subpart of the ft_services
project(school project, at 42).

## OVERVIEW

The container will host a wordpress site. it will also run its own nginx
server.
The container will have a database running in a separate container.
The server is placed inside /var/www/aha_archi (it is actually a symlink to
/usr/share/webapps/wordpress)

## IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS

The user, password, and ip_host/ip_client in the wordpress container should
match the mysql database container.

Wrodpress is a php application.
Nginx by default does not process php requests on its own.
We will install php-fpm for this task. It is basically a FastCGI Process
Manager (FPM).

_**Note:**CGI (Common Gateway Interface) means all requests are redirected into
a unique process. Unlike CGI, with FastCGI, a process runs independently of
the Web server, isolating it and thus providing more security. Therefore
php-fmp will be a single process handling **ALL** php scritps for Nginx (for
all its requests) from the outside._

## RUNNING PROCESSES IN THE SAME CONTAINER

- Nginx
- php-fpm7

## PORTS:

- 5050

Nginx is listening on the port 5050, this is internal to the cluster. (behind
the metalLB load balancer or the main "Nginx container").

## ENV variables (and their default values).

- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_NAME\_\_ wordpress
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_USERNAME\_\_ user
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD\_\_ password
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_HOST\_\_ 127.0.0.1
- \_\_WORDPRESS_DB_TABLE_PREFIX\_\_ aha_archi_wp_

_Mainly used for dynamically updating the **wp-config.php** file when building image
and starting the container._

## SECURITY:

the table_prefix is not left to wp_ in order to avoid common sql injections.
the salt keys are set and can be changed though the use of the script:
`wp_salt_keys_reset.sh`
